Horn in the last lecture we have been talking about principal component analyzers.
And in this lecture we are going to use the principal component analyze his own handwritten digits.
So we are going to deal with these digits data that we are going to have 10 Klaas's 0 1 2 3 4 up to
9.
There are going to be approximately 18 hundred samples and there are going to be 64 dimensions because
every single image is an 8 by 8 pixel image.
OK so why use principle component analyzes because we have 64 features so basically sixty four dimensions
and humans are not able to cope with this huge number of dimensions.
This is why they use principle component analyzes because we are able to reduce the DI imagines and
we can visualize the dataset in two dimensions.
Why is it good.
Because we are able to investigate if the distribution after principal component analyzes reveals the
distribution of different classes and if they are clearly separable we can have a good guess better.
Is it possible to separate two or more clusters and so on.
So first of all we have to load the digits data.
We are going to have the data and the target of our eyeballs accordingly.
Let's say we realized the first six image.
OK I'm going to say that I'm going to call this code and let's run it.
We have already met with this data set when we used support vector machines for classifying can be written
digits.
We have zero we the target will use 0.
Then we have the next image.
We target on that next image with two then three four five and so on.
So we have 18:00 images and we have the target arrival's accordingly.
And of course let's take a look at the principal component and alliances.
We are going to have 10 components we are going to use color code black blue purple yellow white red
line and so on.
And basically we would like to visualize this high dimensional data using just two dimensions.
As usual we have to use the feet transform method on the dataset and basically we are going to assign
a given color to every single dot.
We have the x and y coordinates.
We are going to create a scatterplot with the given color as ok it's very important that in the dataset
as you can see we have integers 0 1 2 3 4 5 and so on but we would like to use colors and that's why
we are going to assign a given color to every single number.
0 1 2 3 and so on.
Then we have the legend with the target names and the X label and the y label accordingly.
So let's say Wait let's run it.
I'm going to close it.
Let's clear the console and let's rerun it again.
So we had images with Target variables like this.
OK.
And basically it's going to be the result after using principal component and ally says we have the
first principal component on the x axis.
We have the second principal component on the y axis.
And as you can see we assign colors to every single integer we have zeros color coded with black.
We have the green dots.
It is the six we have the white dots.
It is the four.
And as you can see it's quite interesting to use principal component analyzes because we can't come
to the conclusion that OK for us humans it's very easy to classify these integers.
But as far as computers are concerned it's not that easy.
It's very easy to separate black dots.
So basically it's very easy to classify integer 0.
It's very easy to classify the green dots.
So number six it's quite easy to detect the white dots which is integer 4.
It is a bit more difficult to detect blue dots which represent integer 1.
But as you can see there are lots of lots of dots in the same region.
So it's not that easy to separate seven eight nine five as you can see.
There are lots of lots of dots in the same region in the two dimensional plot.
It is a bit more easier to detect the yellow dots representing the integers 3.
So we can come to the conclusion after using principal component says that these integers are not that
easy to detect.
So 7 8 9 it's very easy to detect zero.
It's very easy to detect six.
It's quite easy to detect four but these are the complex part of the algorithm.
OK.
So when we ran the classification algorithm such as supporting actor machines such as k nearest neighbor
algorithm such as Navy base Eirgrid them we may expect that there are going to be lots of lots of misclassification
in this region concerning seven eight nine and five.
OK.
So this is why it is good and advisable to use principal component analyzers because we can get a good
grasp on the dataset because for us humans it doesn't matter.
We are able to classify all of these digits.
But for computers it's not that easy especially Saturn 8 9 and 5.
OK.
So this is how we use principal component analyzes.
Thanks for watching.